Faas Runtime migration samples (#237)
SAP-samples/kyma-runtime-extension-samples: faas-runtime-to-kyma-migration/secret-handling/README.md

# Consuming configuration from k8s secret or configMap

## Overview

This sample demonstrates how to inject environment variables from k8s secret or config map into a kyma Function.

> It is based on the [s3uploader](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-function-nodejs-samples/tree/master/examples/s3uploader) SAP Faas Runtime example and can serve the purpose to show how a similar use case could be migrated from deprecated SAP Faas Runtime into the Kyma runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is based on the [s3uploader](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-function-nodejs-samples/tree/master/examples/s3uploader) SAP Faas Runtime example and can serve the purpose of showing how a similar use case can be migrated from deprecated SAP Faas Runtime into the Kyma runtime.
```

## Additional Prerequisites

> Besides the prerequisistes described in the parent folder, for this sample it is required to have access to an S3 compliant storage service. Fill in the ems instance data into the `s3-config.env` and `s3-secret` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the prerequisites described in the parent folder, you must have access to a S3 compliant storage service. Put the EMS instance data into the `s3-config.env` and `s3-secret` files.
```

## Steps

> ### Deploy Secret and ConfigMap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Secret and Config Map
```

> First you need to create the actual secret and config map that will be referenced by the Function to access S3 bucket for storing data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to create the actual Secret and Config Map, that is referenced by the Function, to access S3 bucket for storing data.
```

> **NOTE**:  The `.env` files in this folder are just templates. Please paste the actual data into the files before running the following commands

> Use the following kubectl CLI command to create secret from file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following kubectl CLI command to create Secret from the file:
```

```shell
kubectl create secret generic s3-secret --from-env-file=./s3-secret.env
```

> Use the following kubectl CLI command to create configMap from file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following kubectl CLI command to create Config Map from the file:
```

```shell
kubectl create configmap s3-config --from-env-file=./s3-config.env
```
### Inspect the Function files

> Go to the `secret-handling/s3uploader` folder and inspect the code (`handler.js`), dependencies (`package.json`) and the Function configuration file which manifests the features of the Function (`config.yaml`) - in this case the the http exposure via API Rule and the ENV definitions referencing secret and configmap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the `secret-handling/s3uploader` folder and inspect the code (`handler.js`), dependencies (`package.json`) and the Function configuration file, which manifests the features of the Function (`config.yaml`) - in this case, the HTTP exposure using API Rule and the ENV definitions referencing Secret and Config Map.
```

> ### Deploy the Function using kyma CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy the Function using Kyma CLI
```

> Run the following command to deploy the Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to deploy the Function:
```

```shell
kyma apply function
```

> Verify if the Function was successfully built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify if the Function was built run:
```

```shell
kubectl get functions
NAME              CONFIGURED   BUILT   RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
s3uploader        True         True    True      nodejs14   1         4s
```

### Test

> Send a POST request to the Function http endpoint with JSON payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a POST request to the Function HTTP endpoint with JSON payload.
```

> The content should get stored in the S3 bucket as you configured it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content is stored in the S3 bucket, as you configured it.
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url https://$FUNCTION_URL \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"foo": "bar"}'
```

> You can learn the `FUNCTION_URL` on your cluster be inspecting virtual services in the Function namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn the `FUNCTION_URL` on your cluster by inspecting virtual services in the Function Namespace.
```

# Consuming configuration from Kubernetes Secret or Config Map

## Overview

This sample demonstrates how to inject environment variables from Kubernetes Secret or Config Map into Kyma Function.
It is based on the [s3uploader](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-function-nodejs-samples/tree/master/examples/s3uploader) SAP Faas Runtime example and can serve the purpose of showing how a similar use case can be migrated from deprecated SAP Faas Runtime into the Kyma runtime.

## Additional Prerequisites

Besides the prerequisites described in the parent folder, you must have access to a S3 compliant storage service. Put the EMS instance data into the `s3-config.env` and `s3-secret` files.

## Steps

### Deploy Secret and Config Map

First, you need to create the actual Secret and Config Map, that is referenced by the Function, to access S3 bucket for storing data.

> > **NOTE**:  The `.env` files in this folder are just templates. Please paste the actual data into the files before running the following commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**:  The `.env` files in this folder are just templates. Please paste the actual data into the files before running the following commands.
```

Use the following kubectl CLI command to create Secret from the file:
```shell
kubectl create secret generic s3-secret --from-env-file=./s3-secret.env
```

Use the following kubectl CLI command to create Config Map from the file:
```shell
kubectl create configmap s3-config --from-env-file=./s3-config.env
```
### Inspect the Function files

Go to the `secret-handling/s3uploader` folder and inspect the code (`handler.js`), dependencies (`package.json`) and the Function configuration file, which manifests the features of the Function (`config.yaml`) - in this case, the HTTP exposure using API Rule and the ENV definitions referencing Secret and Config Map.

### Deploy the Function using Kyma CLI

> > **NOTE** If you prefer to deploy the scenario using kubectl CLI simply use the attached `s3uploader-resources.yaml` with the `kubectl apply` command and skip to the testing part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If you prefer to deploy the scenario using kubectl CLI, use the attached `s3uploader-resources.yaml` with the `kubectl apply` command and skip to the testing part.
```
